docs: multi modalities (#1317)
docarray/docarray: docs/data_types/video/video.md

# 🎥 Video

DocArray supports many modalities including `Video`.
This section will show you how to load and handle video data using DocArray.

> Moreover, we will introduce DocArray's video specific types, to represent your video data ranging from [`VideoUrl`][docarray.typing.url.VideoUrl] to [`VideoBytes`][docarray.typing.bytes.VideoBytes] and [`VideoNdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.video.video_ndarray.VideoNdArray].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, you will learn about DocArray's video specific types, to represent your video data ranging from [`VideoUrl`][docarray.typing.url.VideoUrl] to [`VideoBytes`][docarray.typing.bytes.VideoBytes] and [`VideoNdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.video.video_ndarray.VideoNdArray].
```

!!! note
    This requires a `av` dependency. You can install all necessary dependencies via:
    ```cmd 
    pip install "docarray[video]"
    ```

## Load video data

In DocArray video data is represented by a video tensor, an audio tensor and the key frame indices. 

![type:video](mov_bbb.mp4){: style='width: 600px; height: 330px'}

First let's define a `MyVideo` class with all of those attributes and instantiate an object with a local or remote url:

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import AudioNdArray, NdArray, VideoNdArray, VideoUrl

class MyVideo(BaseDoc):
    url: VideoUrl
    video: VideoNdArray = None
    audio: AudioNdArray = None
    key_frame_indices: NdArray = None

doc = MyVideo(
    url='https://github.com/docarray/docarray/blob/feat-rewrite-v2/tests/toydata/mov_bbb.mp4?raw=true'
)

> ```

Reviewer: link to predefined doc :)

> Now we can load the video file content by simply calling [`.load()`][docarray.typing.url.audio_url.AudioUrl.load] on our [`AudioUrl`][docarray.typing.url.audio_url.AudioUrl] instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can load the video file content by simply calling [`.load()`][docarray.typing.url.audio_url.AudioUrl.load] on your [`AudioUrl`][docarray.typing.url.audio_url.AudioUrl] instance.
```

This will return a [NamedTuple](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.NamedTuple) of a **video tensor**, an **audio tensor** and the **key frame indices**:

- The video tensor is a 4-dim array of shape `(n_frames, height, width, channels)`. <br>The first dimension represents the frame id. 
The last three dimensions represent the image data of the corresponding frame. 

- If the video contains audio, it will be stored as an AudioNdArray.

- Additionally, the key frame indices will be stored. A key frame is defined as the starting point of any smooth transition.

```python
doc.video, doc.audio, doc.key_frame_indices = doc.url.load()

assert isinstance(doc.video, VideoNdArray)
assert isinstance(doc.audio, AudioNdArray)
assert isinstance(doc.key_frame_indices, NdArray)

print(doc.video.shape)
```
``` { .text .no-copy }
(250, 176, 320, 3)
```

> For the given example we can infer from `doc.video`'s shape, that the video contains 250 frames of size 176x320 in RGB mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the given example you can infer from `doc.video`'s shape, that the video contains 250 frames of size 176x320 in RGB mode. 
```

> Based on the overall length of the video (10s), we can infer the framerate is approximately 250/10 = 25 frames per second (fps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the overall length of the video (10s), you can infer the framerate is approximately 250/10 = 25 frames per second (fps).
```

## VideoTensor

DocArray offers several VideoTensors to store your data to:

- [`VideoNdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.video.video_ndarray.VideoNdArray]

> - `VideoTorchTensor`

Reviewer: link possible?

doc.torch_tensor = doc.url.load().video

assert isinstance(doc.tf_tensor, VideoTensorFlowTensor)
assert isinstance(doc.torch_tensor, VideoTorchTensor)
```

## VideoBytes

Alternatively, you can load your [`VideoUrl`][docarray.typing.url.VideoUrl] instance to [`VideoBytes`][docarray.typing.bytes.VideoBytes], and your [`VideoBytes`][docarray.typing.bytes.VideoBytes] instance to a `VideoTensor` of your choice:

```python hl_lines="15 16"
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import VideoTensor, VideoUrl, VideoBytes

class MyVideo(BaseDoc):
    url: VideoUrl
    bytes_: VideoBytes = None
    video: VideoTensor = None

doc = MyVideo(
    url='https://github.com/docarray/docarray/blob/feat-rewrite-v2/tests/toydata/mov_bbb.mp4?raw=true'
)

doc.bytes_ = doc.url.load_bytes()
doc.video = doc.url.load().video
```
 
Vice versa, you can also transform a [`VideoTensor`] to  [`VideoBytes`][docarray.typing.bytes.VideoBytes]:

```python
from docarray.typing import VideoBytes

bytes_from_tensor = doc.video.to_bytes()

assert isinstance(bytes_from_tensor, VideoBytes)
```

## Key frame extraction

A key frame is defined as the starting point of any smooth transition.

> Given the key frame indices you can easily access selected scenes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the key frame indices you can access selected scenes.
```

```python
indices = doc.key_frame_indices
first_scene = doc.video[indices[0] : indices[1]]

assert (indices == [0, 95]).all()
assert first_scene.shape == (95, 176, 320, 3)
```

> Or you can easily access the first frame of all new scenes and display them in a notebook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or you can access the first frame of all new scenes and display them in a notebook:
```

```python
from docarray.typing import ImageNdArray
from pydantic import parse_obj_as

key_frames = doc.video[doc.key_frame_indices]
for frame in key_frames:
    img = parse_obj_as(ImageNdArray, frame)
    img.display()
```

<figure markdown>
  ![](key_frames.png){ width="350" }
</figure>

## Save video to file

> You can easily save your video tensor to a file. In the example below we save the video with a framerate of 60 fps, which results in a 4 sec video, instead of the original 10 second video with a frame rate of 25 fps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can save your video tensor to a file. In the example below you save the video with a framerate of 60 fps, which results in a 4 sec video, instead of the original 10 second video with a frame rate of 25 fps. 
```

```python
doc.video.save(
    file_path="/path/my_video.mp4",
    video_frame_rate=60,
)
```

## Display video in notebook

> You can play a video in a notebook from its url as well as its tensor, by calling [`.display()`][docarray.typing.url.audio_url.AudioUrl.display] on either one. For the latter you can optionally give the corresponding AudioTensor as a parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can play a video in a notebook from its URL as well as its tensor, by calling [`.display()`][docarray.typing.url.audio_url.AudioUrl.display] on either one. For the latter you can optionally give the corresponding AudioTensor as a parameter.
```
